We do want to get involved with some
other JavaScripty friendly tooling
that can help us make sure that the code
we are about to push to the interwebs for
all to maybe see or
not if we haven't done right, Anjana,
[LAUGH] is one very handy type of tool,
is called a linter.
Has anybody worked with linters before?
Yeah, okay, so
folks have maybe heard of this, eslint.
And again, that's es ECMAScript.
[LAUGH] So the eslint is a super
popular one, there are lots of others.
But essentially, the idea here is that
this linter is a program that's gonna look
at our code base and do the jargon term.
And be like statically analyze
all the files that we have and
the text in those files.
And make sure that we
don't have any obvious,
glaring errors that
are defined by some rules that
we can customize for a given project.
But we can also use some kind of default
best practice rules that are baked in
already out of the box.
And that's what we're
gonna be doing today.
So these are things like, for example,
if you declare a variable, but
you never use it, you never refer to it,
you don't need that.
It might not be a bug, but it's probably
something that you don't really want just
hanging around your code base.
And so linters can catch
that type of thing for you.
They can also catch reference errors and
things like that before
you actually run the code.
Before you even push the code,
you can catch some degree of issues.
Not all of them, obviously,
because [LAUGH] then we
wouldn't need to be doing this.
[LAUGH] But
the idea is that we will be installing
eslint in our project repository.
So what we can do is together,
we can do this in whatever
your selfie cam project was.
If you called it selfie cam like I did,
or if you called it something else.
But the Vite project
that we started earlier,
we can go into that directory and
run from within that directory this
command npm init @eslint/config.
And I will move over to a window so
we can all do this together.
What did I call it?
awesome-vite-starter was what mine
was called because I already had,
I'll talk about that later,
I already had a selfie cam.
[LAUGH] So can folks see this?
Okay, so now pretend that this
is what you called your project.
So if we run, whoo, [LAUGH] always
typing it in the wrong window,
it's like my whole vibe.
Okay, whoo, fun tabs.
If we run npm init @eslint/config,
we're gonna
get a handy dandy little wizard
similar to our Vite project
bootstrapper that's gonna
walk us through some choices.
And what this is going to do is set up
eslint as a development dependency of
our project.
And set up some configuration for eslint
so it knows what type of project this is,
what kind of things, what kind of
code I'm gonna be working with, etc.
Now, eslint comes with what
are called rules and sets of rules.
So for example, no unused vars or
no unused variable declarations
that you never refer to again.
And these are kind of grouped
into different sets so
that we can have some sets that are
related to syntax problems, syntax errors.
Then we can have, for example,
a const equals semicolon, not JavaScript.
JavaScript's just immediately
gonna have a problem with that, so
eslint can catch that for us.
That's a syntax problem.
Then it can also find those other
problems that aren't illegal JavaScript,
things like the unused variables.
And there also is the option to enforce
some formatting with eslint, but
we're not gonna use it for that,
we're gonna use something else.
And so right now, we're gonna
stick with this middle version,
the check syntax and find problems.
And what type of modules
does our project use?
>> JavaScript.
>> Exactly, yes, this is referring
to ECMAScript modules, but
the import export modules,
not the require module exports,
CommonJS modules that
were the older solution.
So we're gonna choose that one, fabulous.
Which framework do we use?
None of those, vanilla all the way.
Are we on TypeScript?
No, not at the moment.
And where does our code run?
>> Browser.
>> For this project, we're not developing
a command line tool or something,
some other library that we expect people
to install in their node backends.
We're writing front-end code,
so we want Browser.
And for this one, we're gonna choose JSON.
I'm just gonna dictate that.
[LAUGH] So we'll choose JSON for
the config file.
Okay, so now, Did I say I'm using,
I said I'm using TypeScript, oops.
All right, well, hopefully, you did
not say that you are using TypeScript.
If I'm like, no,
I didn't want any of this,
what I just did is press Ctrl+C and
it aborted.
So I can run through it again and
type in the correct values.
So I want syntax and problems.
We're using ES modules,
we're not using a framework.
We are not using TypeScript.
We are in the browser and we want JSON.
Okay, so now it's gonna say something
like, all right, you have asked
me to set this up and I am going to
need to install a dependency of ESLint.
Well, that makes sense cuz this is
what we're asking ESLint to do.
So I accept, I consent,
thank you for asking me.
Okay, and
which package manager are we using?
>> npm.
>> npm today.
And then there it goes.
So now it is running behind the scenes,
a little install, and
it says it also successfully created
an eslintrc.json file in my project.
So I'm just gonna close this, Don't Save.
So if I go into my project here,
I'll see I have a new .eslintrc.json file,
which is, again,
in the JavaScript npm package world,
we're gonna have lots of different
tools that have their own configs.
We're gonna talk about Vite
has its own config files, too.
So we'll get used to seeing lots of JSON
files with [LAUGH] settings and things.
And so right here, we just have some of
the default, kind of out-of-the-box rules,
are this eslint recommended?
And unless your project has any
specific reason to use other things,
that should be fine.
That's all we're gonna do today.
But if you have some specific
rules you want to include,
maybe some custom rules that your
company has, for example, or
anything else, you can also add
into this rules object here.
You can specify which other
rules you want to use.
And those will be added with, as you might
guess, from this extends keyword, those
will be added in addition to whatever else
you've kind of pulled in from that extent.
Okay, so now, [LAUGH] and
I don't need to say that.
We wanna take a look at our package.json.
And notice that we have a new friend,
a new dependency in our dev dependencies,
because the linter is something
that we run as developers before we
send the code to the interwebs, ideally.
[LAUGH] And not something that our users
are gonna be running in the browser.
This is a dev time helper.
So now we have an eslint dependency.
Okay, now, how do we use this thing?
So there is a fun little command
that comes with npm called npx.
And what that does, it essentially allows
you to run a dependency of your project.
Yeah, just as if you're running
it at the command line and
you have it globally installed, let's say.
So what I could do is npx eslint, and
maybe ask it for eslint, what's your deal?
Okay, well, at least it exists, so
that's nice, it tells me some things.
Look, a bajillion options,
almost like every CLI [LAUGH] tool ever.
So we're not gonna worry too much
about all of this, but essentially,
about all of the configuration and
everything.
But the idea is that by default,
eslint, when we run it,
is gonna look for that .eslintrc.json.
And we're gonna maybe give it
some optional options, but
we're gonna tell it where we
want it to look at our code.
And so in this case,
we probably wanted to look at everything.
So what we can do is run
npx eslint [LAUGH] and
then dot for the current directory,
and it will go through.
And okay, well,
there was a small delay and
nothing really happened, but
that might be because nothing is wrong.
So let's make something wrong and
see if it can catch it.
All right, so for example,
that shouldn't fly,
I just put two random backwards thingies.
VS Code is already like,
that's not, you're not, nope, and
there's a little Easter egg there.
But so now, if I run es,
hopefully, this is gonna catch it.
Indeed, it's like I have
a parsing error in camera.js.
You can't start a JavaScript file
with a closed square bracket.
Anjana, what are you doing?
Don't do anything further,
just go fix that.
So that's good to know, right?
This is actually gonna be catching
not just the syntax errors, but
also stuff, like I said, const.
If I have a useless variable, and
you can see VS Code is already telling me
something's wrong, which is because
there's an ESLint integration,
which we're gonna talk about soon.
There's ESLint integrations for code.
But so yeah, so if I run it again,
it's gonna tell me, yeah,
in that file camera.js, useless is
assigned a value but never used.
And that's the rule, no unused vars.
As we get into more and
more complex projects and as we are,
something is on fire and
we have to fix it really quickly,
we really appreciate eslint
doing all this for us.
And we probably wanna go bake
this into our package script so
that we don't have to keep going and
running npx eslint., right?
So after I fix this, [LAUGH] what I
can do is go into my package.json.
And these scripts in this little thing
here, these were put in by Vite, but
I can put in whatever scripts I want here.
And they will be run within
the kind of dependency access.
So I don't need that npx the same way I do
when I'm running it from the command line.
Because if we're running these scripts,
we're running them with npm run.
And so it already knows where we are, and
that we want to run the dependency of
our project called Vite, for example.
So what I can do, and
what you'll often see,
is add a lint script with
whatever the lint command is.
If we have very complex flags and things,
options that we want to be
passing into the eslint command,
we can bake them all in there so
we don't have to type them every time.
So I can save this.
And now, just like I could run npm run
build, I'm able to run npm run lint.
And actually, let me unfix this just so
we can make sure it's still catching.
And it does the same thing,
but within our project.
So again, it's catching problems,
it's catching syntax errors,
it's doing all kinds of helpful stuff.
And so then what you can also do, and what
you'll see in larger complex projects,
is you'll then have scripts that kind of
layer these different scripts together.
So for example, I could have
something like, before I build,
for example, I could do an npm run lint,
and then the and
is like, if that succeeds,
then go on with the build.
So if the linter fails,
let me unfix, I should not even get
to wasting my computer's
resources on running the build and
wasting my time on like if there's
a very a lot of optimizations happening.
So let's see what happens now
when I run npm run build.
It's like whoa, whoa, whoa,
whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa,
first of all,
you have to pass lint and you didn't.
And this is telling me when I run, sorry.
Okay, when I run build,
npm is looking at, okay,
what does your build script say to do?
It says to do npm run lint and
and vite build.
So first, I'm gonna do npm run lint,
what does that say to do?
That says to do eslint., so
check the files in this directory.
And that did not succeed,
so I'm not gonna do it.
Okay, so but now if I fix the problem and
I try this again,
hopefully, we got through
the eslint and
we got to the vite build step.
So this is how we can start to bake in any
other checks and balances that we need.
As projects get bigger and as teams
are collaborating across time zones and
whatnot, it's very helpful to all
be on the same page about this
needs to pass the linter before
it can go to the build process.
And with things like an eslint config
file, and there are a few other
ways to do the config as you might
have gathered from the prompts.
This way,
everybody that's using this project,
everybody that's developing this project
is gonna be using the same set of rules.
So that's fun, cuz otherwise,
chaos might ensue.
So if you want chaos, don't do this.